Kigali / Johannesburg / London / New York, 23 June 2022: Africa investor (Ai), a leading international investment group, today launched the Africa investor (Ai) Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) Investment Awards on the margins of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) currently underway in Kigali, Rwanda. The NDC Investment Awards will be presented at COP27 that will take place in Egypt from November 7 to 18 this year. World governments and global development finance institutions recognize that there is no single Net Zero pathway that can be followed to address the SDGs and Paris Agreement infrastructure and energy multi-trillion Dollar financing gap for bankable green transition Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) and Net Zero infrastructure projects. The only way would be to exponentially increase the scale and speed of global institutional investor allocations that can be rapidly deployed and perform at both project and asset levels in emerging markets and developing countries. The NDC Investment Awards is sponsored by the African Green Infrastructure Investment Bank (AfGIIB) as the headline partner. The awards recognize achievements across the main NDC project sectors and reward the governments, institutions, and personalities driving transactions and improving the investment readiness of Africa’s NDC projects requiring $3trn of investment by 2030. The following categories will be recognised by the Best NDC Sector Initiatives of the Year Awards: The NDC Investment Awards are the only international, pan-African awards that recognise and reward both public and private sector institutions who are working to innovate and break new ground to mobilize investment and private sector participation at scale in Africa’s NDC Paris aligned climate investment commitments and projects. These awards will recognise excellence amongst public and private sector infrastructure and investment leaders. It will reward the institutions and personalities driving bankable NDC transactions and highlight those committed to reducing the climate finance and investment gap and create awareness of these initiatives to a regional and global climate finance and investment audience. The NDC Investment Awards represent a premier NDC investment leadership platform, showcasing innovative institutional investor-public private partnerships (IIPP) committed to reducing the multi-trillion dollar NDC climate financing and green infrastructure financing gap. A high-level judging panel consisting of investors and industry experts chosen for their knowledge, objectivity, and credibility has been established. The NDC Investment Awards Adjudication panel includes: Hubert Danso, Chairman of Africa investor Group and the Chair of the NDC Awards Adjudication panel, commented from the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in Kigali: “Africa needs to mobilise $3trn of investment for its NDC projects by 2030. This means the continent must mobilise more investment in eight years than the $2.8trn the world mobilised for renewable energy investments in the last 20 years between 2000-2020”. He went on to say, “The importance of these global NDC Investment Awards cannot be overstated. These awards are designed to highlight the urgency and benefits of professionally developing bankable NDC projects to multiply the different sources of private and blended capital that can assist capital mobilisation for the implementation of NDCs to unlock and leverage the continents globally superior natural capital endowment.” The deadline for entry submissions is August 24 this year, and the shortlist will be announced the following month on September 22 during UN Climate Week in New York. The Award winners will be announced in November at COP27 in Sharm El Sheikh Egypt. To submit your entry, please click here. To recognize exemplary Presidential leadership on Africa’s climate investment agenda, the Awards Secretariat will also present special recognition Honorary NDC Presidential Champions awards during the ceremony in Sharm El-Sheikh. The NDC Investment Awards will launch with the Africa regional Awards that will be presented at COP27 hosted in Egypt. Other regional awards will be hosted at future COP Summits and will pave the way for the launch of the 2023 Asia, Europe, North American, and GCC NDC Investment Awards at COP27. The awards are designed to inspire speedy implementation and greater ambition across all NDCs. General submission criteria include showcasing the investment potential of the plan, highlighting industry engagement, how it promotes advocacy, and how the plan results in increased NDC ambitions. Ends. About The NDC Investment Awards Headline sponsor The African Green Infrastructure Investment Bank (AfGIIB) is an African Union-convened and supported African institutional investor-led, global finance platform to catalyze private capital for Africa’s green transition in the run up to COP27 in Africa and beyond. Visit www.afgiib.com for more information. About Africa investor Group Africa investor (Ai) Group is an institutional investment holding platform that aligns its pools of capital from sovereign wealth funds, pension funds, family offices, and long-term investors with vetted infrastructure, private equity, and technology investment opportunities in Africa. Visit www.africainvestor.com for more information.