About the NDC Investment Awards
World governments and global development finance institutions, recognize there is no single NetZero pathway that can be met to address the SDG’s and Paris Agreement infrastructure and energy multi-trillion dollar financing gap, for bankable green transition NDC and Net Zero infrastructure projects, without exponentially increasing the scale and speed, of global institutional investor allocations, that can be rapidly deployed and perform at the project and asset level. Launched in 2022, by Africa investor (Ai), the NDC Investment Awards, are a global platform to showcase success stories of both the public and private sector working to innovate and break new ground, to mobilise investment and private sector participation, at scale in their Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) projects. The NDC Investment Awards are designed to recognise and reward excellence amongst public and private sector leaders, to a regional global climate finance and investment audience. These global NDC Investment Awards highlight the benefits from professionally developing bankable NDC projects, to multiply the different sources of private and blended capital that can assist capital mobilisation for the implementation of NDC’s, to unlock the climate dividends and assist the attainment of Paris Goals commitments. The NDC Investment Awards recognise achievements across the main NDC Project sectors across the globe, and reward the governments and personalities driving transactions and improving the investment readiness of NDC projects. The NDC Investment Awards will launch with the Africa regional Awards that will be presented at COP27 hosted in Egypt and other regional awards will be hosted at future COP Summits. We will launch the 2023 Asia, Europe, North American and GCC NDC Investment Awards at COP 27. These Awards reward the institutions and personalities driving bankable NDC transactions and those committed to reducing the climate finance and investment gap. The NDC Investment Awards, represent a premier business development and leadership platform, showcasing innovative institutional investor-public private partnerships (IIPP). Headline Sponsor
The African Green Infrastructure Investment Bank (AfGIIB) is the headline sponsor. The African Green Infrastructure Investment Bank (AfGIIB), is an African Union-convened and supported, African institutional investor-led, global finance platform, to catalyze private capital for Africa’s green transition, in the run up to COP27 in Africa and beyond. www.afgiib.com Adjudication Process and Criteria: Adjudication Process
A high-level judging panel consisting of investors and industry experts chosen for their knowledge, objectivity and credibility along with the Awards Secretariat’s technical team, will review the submitted entry material. Judges score each entry individually and any conflict of interest will be removed, the judge’s score will be confidential.
The Judges’ decision is final and neither the Secretariat, nor the judging panel will enter into any correspondence regarding individual entries and/ or award winners.
Winners will be announced on www.africainvestor.com. Entry Deadline: Midnight (CAT) 24 August 2022 Shortlist announced 22 Sept 2022, during UN Climate Week 10 November 2022: Announce winners at COP27 FREE to enter by downloading the entry pack and submitting the award Awards Adjudication Panel: 1. Hubert Danso, Chair of the Adjudication Panel
2. Ziad-Alexandre Hayek, President, World Association of PPP Units (WAPPP)
3. John Denton, Secretary General, International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
4. Guly Sabahi, Senior Advisor, Climate Finance, NDC Partnership
5. Kandeh YUMKELLA, Former UN Under-Secretary-Genera | Special Representative of the Secretary-General and CEO
6. Luisa Moreno, Managing Director, Tahuti Global
7. Hela Cheikhrouhou, Regional Vice President – International Finance Corporation
8. Damilola Ogunbiyi, CEO and UN SRSG for Sustainable Energy for All, Co-Chair of UN-Energy Best NDC Sector Initiatives of the Year Criteria:
1. Investability of plan
2. Industry engagement
3. Advocacy
4. Projects/ initiatives Criteria:
5. CO2 reduction
6. Youth & Gender Impact
7. Innovation
8. Regional impact
9. Implementation
10. Job’s created
11. Capital mobilized NDC Investment Awards Categories
Best NDC Sector Initiatives of the Year:
1. Best Waste NDC Initiative of the Year
2. Best Energy NDC Initiative of the Year
3. Best Transport NDC Initiative of the Year
4. Best Urban Development NDC of the Year
5. Best Forestry NDC Initiative of the Year
6. Best Agriculture NDC Initiative of the Year
7. Best Education NDC Initiative of the Year
8. Best Health NDC Initiative of the Year
9. Best Water NDC Initiative of the Year
10. Best Tourism NDC Initiative of the Year Honorary NDC Presidential Champions of the Year:
1) Presidential “Green Infrastructure Champion” of the Year
2) Presidential “Just Transition Champion” of the Year
3) Presidential “Carbon Exchange Champion” of the Year
4) Presidential “Transport” Champion of the Year
5) Presidential “Water” Champion of the Year
6) Presidential “Agriculture” Champion of the Year